add file connector example (#1118)
wso2/docs-ei: en/micro-integrator/docs/references/connectors/file-connector/file-connector-example.md

# File Connector Example

> The File Connector allows you to connect to different file systems and perform various operations with the file systems. The file connector uses the Apache Commons VFS I/O functionalities to execute operations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The File Connector allows you to connect to different file systems and perform various operations. The File Connector uses the Apache Commons VFS I/O functionalities to execute operations.
```

Let's be consistent with connector names and write them in title case everywhere. So use "File Connector" in all instances.

Author: Removed the 'File Connector', since we are working in a generic document.

Author: Done

Author: Done

> WSO2 EI File connector introduces the atomic operation related to the file system and allows you to easily manipulate files based on your requirement. The file streaming functionality using Apache Commons I/O lets you copy large files and reduces the file transfer time between two file systems resulting in a significant improvement in performance that can be utilized in file operations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
WSO2 EI File Connector introduces the atomic operation related to the file system and allows you to easily manipulate files based on your requirement. The file streaming functionality using Apache Commons I/O allows you to copy large files and reduces the file transfer time between two file systems. This results in a significant improvement in performance that can be utilized in file operations.
```

Can we come up with a better term for "atomic operation"? It's not clear what you mean since this is normally a programming term.

Author: used 'independent operations' instead of 'atomic'

> Using File Connector it can be perform operations in local file system as well as in a remote server such as FTP and SFTP. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion 
File Connector can be used to perform operations in the local file system as well as in a remote server such as FTP and SFTP. 
```

Author: Done

## What you'll build

> This example explains how to use File Connector to create a file in the local file system and read the particular file. The user will send a payload specifying which content to be written to the file. Based on that content a file will be created in the specified location. Then it can be read the content of the file as an http response by invoking the other api resource upon the existence of the file. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This example explains how to use File Connector to create a file in the local file system and read the particular file. The user sends a payload specifying which content is to be written to the file. Based on that content, a file is created in the specified location. Then the content of the file can be read as an HTTP response by invoking the other API resource upon the existence of the file. 
```

Author: Done

> It will have two http api resources which are create and read. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It will have two HTTP API resources, which are `create` and `read`. 
```

Author: Done

> * /create : It will create a file with the content that the user specifies in the payload. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `/create`: It will create a file with the content that the user specifies in the payload. 
```

Author: Done

<p><img src="../../../assets/img/connectors/FileConnector-03.png" title="Adding a Rest API" width="800" alt="Adding a Rest API"/></p>

> * /read : It will first check if the file exists. If so it will read the content of the file. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `/read`: It will first check if the file exists. If so it will read the content of the file. 
```

Author: Done

<p><img src="../../../assets/img/connectors/FileConnector-02.png" title="Adding a Rest API" width="800" alt="Adding a Rest API"/></p>

## Configure the connector in WSO2 Integration Studio

1. Follow these steps to set up the ESB Solution Project and the Connector Exporter Project. 

> [Configure the Connector and the Connector Exporter Project](../configure-connector-exporter-project.md).

Reviewer: Let's make this a separate section entirely.

Author: Done

> 2. Right Click on the created ESB Solution Project -> New -> Rest API to create the REST API. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Right click on the created ESB Solution Project and select **New** -> **Rest API** to create the REST API. 
```

Author: Done

<p><img src="../../../assets/img/connectors/adding-an-api.png" title="Adding a Rest API" width="800" alt="Adding a Rest API"/></p>

> 3. Provide the API name as File Connector and the api context as /fileconnector. You can go to the source view and copy paste the following api configuration. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Provide the API name as File Connector and the API context as `/fileconnector`. You can go to the source view and copy paste the following API configuration. 
```

Let's put endpoints, and all other technical terms and configurations within single backticks.

Author: Done

            <fileconnector.isFileExist>
                <source>{$ctx:source}</source>
            </fileconnector.isFileExist>
            <property expression="json-eval($.fileExist)" name="response" scope="default" type="STRING"/>
            <log level="custom">
                <property expression="get-property('response')" name="responselog"/>
            </log>
            <switch source="get-property('response')">
                <case regex="true">
                    <fileconnector.read>
                        <source>{$ctx:source}</source>
                    </fileconnector.read>
                    <respond/>
                </case>
                <default>
                    <log>
                        <property name="notext" value="&quot;File does not exist&quot;"/>
                    </log>
                </default>
            </switch>
            <drop/>
        </inSequence>
        <outSequence/>
        <faultSequence/>
    </resource>
</api>

```

4. Right-click on the Composite Application Project and click on **Export Project Artifacts and Run**. Export tha carbon application to your desired location. 

## Deployment

> ### Micro Integrator

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Deploying on WSO2 Enterprise Integrator 7.x
```

Author: Done

You can copy the carbon application to the <PRODUCT-HOME>/repository/deployment/server/carbonapps folder and start the server. 
Micro Integrator will be started and the composite application will be deployed. You can further refer to the application deployed through the CLI tool. Make sure you first export the PATH as below.

    ```
    $ export PATH=/path/to/mi/cli/directory/bin:$PATH\
    ```

> 1. Login.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Log in to Micro Integrator using the following command.
```

Author: Done

    ```
    ./mi remote login
    ```

2. Provide default credentials admin for both username and password.
3. In order to view the APIs deployed, execute the following command.

    ```
    ./mi api show
    ```

> ### wso2-ei-6.6.0

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Deploying on WSO2 Enterprise Integrator 6.6
```

Author: Done

1. You can copy the carbon application to the <PRODUCT-HOME>/repository/deployment/server/carbonapps folder and start the server. 

> 2. WSO2 EI server will be started and you can login to the Management Console https://localhost:9443/carbon/ URL. Provide login credentials. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. WSO2 EI server starts and you can login to the Management Console https://localhost:9443/carbon/ URL. Provide login credentials. 
```

Author: Done

> 3. Under API section it can be seen that the API is deployed. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. You can see that the API is deployed under the API section. 
```

Author: Done

## Testing

### File Create Operation

1. Create a file called data.json with the following payload. 
```
{
    "source":"/Users/IsuruUyanage/Desktop/RnD/2020/Q1/ConnectorVerification/create.txt",
    "inputContent": "This is a test file"
}
```

> 2. Invoke the API as below. 

Reviewer: Let's include the response/expected result. Same comment applies for the next section as well.

Author: Done

```

> curl -H "Content-Type: application/json" --request POST --data @body.json http://10.100.5.136:8290/fileconnector/create

Reviewer: Add a note to install curl and a link to get it.

Author: This is done

# File Connector Example

> The File Connector allows you to connect to different file systems and perform various operations. The File Connector uses the Apache Commons VFS I/O functionalities to execute operations.

Reviewer 2: Shall we link Apache Commons VFS  to the relevant page at Apache?

Author: Done

## What you'll build

This example explains how to use File Connector to create a file in the local file system and read the particular file. The user sends a payload specifying which content is to be written to the file. Based on that content, a file is created in the specified location. Then the content of the file can be read as an HTTP response by invoking the other API resource upon the existence of the file. 

It will have two HTTP API resources, which are `create` and `read`. 

* `/create `: It will create a file with the content that the user specifies in the payload. 
<p><img src="../../../assets/img/connectors/FileConnector-03.png" title="Adding a Rest API" width="800" alt="Adding a Rest API"/></p>

* `/read `: It will first check if the file exists. If so it will read the content of the file. 
<p><img src="../../../assets/img/connectors/FileConnector-02.png" title="Adding a Rest API" width="800" alt="Adding a Rest API"/></p>

## Configure the connector in WSO2 Integration Studio

1. Follow these steps to set up the ESB Solution Project and the Connector Exporter Project. 

> [Configure the Connector and the Connector Exporter Project](../importing-connector-to-integration-studio.md).

Reviewer 2: We need to verify how this behaves at MKDocs. 
@samgnaniah is this the correct way of linking to the common page?

Reviewer: No, this should be in the following format:

"<!-- INCLUDE_MD: ../../<file-name>.md -->"

Reviewer: Better to test it out locally using mkdocs and see.

    </resource>
    <resource methods="POST" uri-template="/read">
        <inSequence>
            <property expression="json-eval($.source)" name="source" scope="default" type="STRING"/>
            <fileconnector.isFileExist>
                <source>{$ctx:source}</source>
            </fileconnector.isFileExist>
            <property expression="json-eval($.fileExist)" name="response" scope="default" type="STRING"/>
            <log level="custom">
                <property expression="get-property('response')" name="responselog"/>
            </log>
            <switch source="get-property('response')">
                <case regex="true">
                    <fileconnector.read>
                        <source>{$ctx:source}</source>
                    </fileconnector.read>
                    <respond/>
                </case>
                <default>
                    <log>
                        <property name="notext" value="&quot;File does not exist&quot;"/>
                    </log>
                </default>
            </switch>
            <drop/>
        </inSequence>
        <outSequence/>
        <faultSequence/>
    </resource>
</api>

```

> 4. Follow these steps to [export the artifacts](../exporting-artifacts.md).

Reviewer 2: Here as well we need to check. @samgnaniah

Reviewer: This will not work. Has to be in the following format:

{! ../../file-name.md !}

## Deployment

> ### Deploying on WSO2 Enterprise Integrator 7

Reviewer 2: We need to get these two sections onto tabs and maybe move onto the common doc.

Reviewer: It doesn't work for sections. We can only have tabs for code blocks.

    ```
    $ export PATH=/path/to/mi/cli/directory/bin:$PATH\
    ```

1. Log in to Micro Integrator using the following command.

    ```
    ./mi remote login
    ```

2. Provide default credentials admin for both username and password.
3. In order to view the APIs deployed, execute the following command.

    ```
    ./mi api show
    ```

### Deploying on WSO2 Enterprise Integrator 6

1. You can copy the carbon application to the <PRODUCT-HOME>/repository/deployment/server/carbonapps folder and start the server. 

2. WSO2 EI server starts and you can login to the Management Console https://localhost:9443/carbon/ URL. Provide login credentials. The default credentials will be admin/admin. 

3. You can see that the API is deployed under the API section. 

## Testing

### File Create Operation

1. Create a file called data.json with the following payload. 
```
{
    "source":"/Users/IsuruUyanage/Desktop/RnD/2020/Q1/ConnectorVerification/create.txt",
    "inputContent": "This is a test file"
}
```

> 2. Invoke the API as below using curl. It can be downloaded from [Releases and Downloads](https://curl.haxx.se/download.html).

Reviewer 2: `Curl Application` can be downloaded from [here] (https://curl.haxx.se/download.html).

Author: Done

```
curl -H "Content-Type: application/json" --request POST --data @body.json http://10.100.5.136:8290/fileconnector/create
```
**Expected Response**: 
You should get a 'Success' response, and the file should be created in the specified location in the above payload. 

### File Read Operation

1. Create a file called data.json with the following payload. 
```
{
    "source":"/Users/IsuruUyanage/Desktop/RnD/2020/Q1/ConnectorVerification/create.txt"
}
```

> 2. Invoke the API as below using cURL. It can be downloaded from [Releases and Downloads](https://curl.haxx.se/download.html).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Invoke the API as shown below using the curl command. Curl can be downloaded from [here](https://curl.haxx.se/download.html).
```

Author: Done
